Our world is, in essence, twofold: there is the material world, which has its own studyable properties, objects, and patterns, but there is also the world of experience within oneself, which can also be examined.
In our modern culture, with the proliferation of material sciences, it is easy to forget this simple fact. The properties of the space of human experience are comparatively understudied in the modern day, as compared to the study of the phenomena of the material world.

Phenomenology refers to, in essence, the study of the space of human experience, as its own scientific universe of objects.
At the end of the day, the fundamental question of phenomenology is: what is the nature of the "physics" of the space of human experience, and in what ways does it relate to the material universe?
In this series, I will reiterate my own original findings in response to this prompt, remaining as empirical as possible even though I expect to divulge into very controversial ideas.

Categorization in this way serves to divide these landscapes into two: the material and the phenomenological. Dividing them as such is helpful, but paradoxically, in this series I will often derive results that demonstrate they are in some sense one and the same. More formally, I will demonstrate that they affect one another.

Now, allow me to illustrate the worldview which I wish to demonstrate fraudulent. This is the worldview that sees the material world as ultimate, and assumes that phenomenology is "the result of chemicals in the brain", as though nothing more than shadows cast by the "more real" world of objects casting those shadows: noticeable, yet inconsequential. In this worldview, certain happenings in the brain cause certain emotions to happen. Few would argue that the happenings of the material world affect what one experiences, but it is not nearly as unanimous a belief that the opposite is true. I aim to show in this episode that this is not a correct formulation, and that the phenomenological universe acts upon the real one just as much as the opposite obviously occurs.

In this first episode, I will introduce a way of thinking which works as something of an intellectual crowbar, allowing us to reason about the nature of the phenomenological world. Using it, I will show that phenomena within the psyche affect the material world, and that, in turn, will work as a springboard for much more impressive findings.

I understand that the proof will seem lofty and hard to understand, so I will provide an analogous pre-proof first, which is topologically identical but simultaneously more concrete.
In this pre-proof, we will demonstrate, in roundabout fashion, that human fingers can affect the material world. We notice that the fingers are in an organized array most useful to serve evolutionary function, and thus we can conclude that this property has been selected for evolutionarily. Since they have been selected for evolutionarily, we know that historically some individuals would have had to had fingers in a less optimal layout, perhaps no fingers at all, perhaps fingers shaped less optimally. They must have been selected against historically, and that can only happen if their fingers affect their chance of survival, by affecting the material world. And there you have it, fingers can affect the material world.

Now onto the proof. We start by observing that our emotions align with that which is evolutionarily beneficial for us. When something happens to us which is evolutionarily negative, we feel a negative emotion. When something damages our body, we feel pain. When we satisfy our evolutionary drives such as eating or reproducing, we experience positive emotions. It is easy to take this for granted: if we assume the theorem to be false, this could easily be switched on its head where we feel positive emotion when in danger and negative emotion when succeeding evolutionarily. If we assume the theorem to be false, it makes no difference what emotion is mapped onto by which state of the material world. In reality, this is not the case and our emotions are indeed aligned with our physical state in this way. It is too much of a coincidence to assume that this would be the case if it were not evolutionarily beneficial for this to be the case. This means that, for this feature to have developed evolutionarily, our ancestors must have been selected for or against, based on this property. For selection to occur, the feature being selected for must affect the probability of reproduction of the individual, and to do that must affect the material world. Thus, we have our result, that our internal experiences affect the material world.

[third proof about sight- sight is experience, we aren't blind. What's that disorder where you can act as though you see but dont experience it?]

Now that this is formally established, what else can we learn from it?
It turns out this result can be used to show some more important ideas:
Others are not philosophical zombies
We are not brains in jars
Language's connection to consciousness
Qualia are actually measurable and studyable
Parapsychology

I will demonstrate these in further videos.

Here are some questions for you, the viewer:
Why is it, in your opinion, that it is generally held as self-evident in our modern culture that this is the case? Why is it that we often hold this as axiomatic?

These are honest questions, not some cheap trick to up the engagement on my videos. I genuinely wish to hear a good answer to these.

In the nature of full disclosure, I wish to offer a disclaimer for the arguments I will put forth in this series:
My arguments/findings in this series will resemble mathematical proofs and theorems more than scientific experiments, and thus I will refer to them as proofs and theorems. If it quacks like a duck... However, none of them are watertight in the same way that mathematical proofs are. I will make probabilistic arguments, evolutionary arguments, and I will also reference the experience of the individual as evidence in itself, which of course differ from person to person.
